Llama index doc (#12692)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/llms/llama-index/index.rst

by providing efficient indexing and retrieval mechanisms, making it easier to build advanced QA systems, chatbots,
and other AI-driven applications that require integration of external knowledge.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/llms/llama-index/llama-index-gateway.png
    :alt: Overview of LlamaIndex and MLflow integration
    :width: 70%
    :align: center

Why use LlamaIndex with MLflow?
-------------------------------

The integration of the LlamaIndex library with MLflow provides a seamless experience for managing and deploying LlamaIndex engines. The following are some of the key benefits of using LlamaIndex with MLflow:

* `MLflow Tracking <../../tracking.html>`_ allows you to track your index in MLflow and manage many moving parts in your LlamaIndex project, such as prompts, LLMs, retrievers, tools, global configurations, and more.

* `MLflow Model <../../models.html>`_ packages your LlamaIndex engine with all its dependency versions, input and output interfaces, and other essential metadata. This allows you to deploy your LlamaIndex engine with ease, knowing that the environment is consistent across different stages of the ML lifecycle.

> * `MLflow Evaluate <../llm-evaluate/index.html>`_ provides native capabilities within MLflow to evaluate language models. This capability facilitates the efficient assessment of inference results from your LlamaIndex engine, ensuring robust performance analytics and facilitating quick iterations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `MLflow Evaluate <../llm-evaluate/index.html>`_ provides native capabilities within MLflow to evaluate GenAI applications. This capability facilitates the efficient assessment of inference results from your LlamaIndex engine, ensuring robust performance analytics and facilitating quick iterations.
```

> * `MLflow Tracing <../tracing/index.html>`_ is a powerful observability tool for monitoring and debugging what happens inside the LlamaIndex models, helping you identify potential bottlenecks or issues quickly. With its powerful automatic logging capability, you can instrument your LlamaIndex application without any code change but just by running a single command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `MLflow Tracing <../tracing/index.html>`_ is a powerful observability tool for monitoring and debugging what happens inside the LlamaIndex models, helping you identify potential bottlenecks or issues quickly. With its powerful automatic logging capability, you can instrument your LlamaIndex application without needing to add any code apart from running a single command.
```

Getting Started
---------------

TBA

Concepts
--------

``Index``
^^^^^^^^^

> The ``Index`` object is the core foundation in LlamaIndex, which is a collection of documents that are indexed for fast information retrieval. Such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and Agents use cases. The ``Index`` object can be logged to MLflow experiments and loaded back as an inference engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``Index`` object is the core foundation in LlamaIndex. This object is a collection of documents that are indexed for fast information retrieval, providing capabilities for applications such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and Agents. The ``Index`` object can be logged directly to an MLflow run and loaded back for use as an inference engine.
```

``Engine``
^^^^^^^^^^

The ``Engine`` is a generic interface built on top of the ``Index`` object, which provides a set of APIs to interact with the index. LlamaIndex provides two types of engines: ``QueryEngine`` and ``ChatEngine``. The ``QueryEngine`` simply takes a single
query and returns a response based on the index. The ``ChatEngine`` is designed for conversational agents, which keeps track of the conversation history as well.

Usage
-----

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

Saving and Loading Index in MLflow Experiment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Creating an Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``index`` object is a centerpiece of the LlamaIndex and MLflow integration. With LlamaIndex, you can create an index from a collection of documents. The following code creates a sample index from Paul Graham's essay data available in the LlamaIndex repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``index`` object is the centerpiece of the LlamaIndex and MLflow integration. With LlamaIndex, you can create an index from a collection of documents. The following code creates a sample index from Paul Graham's essay data available within the LlamaIndex repository.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from llama_index.core import VectorStoreIndex, SimpleDirectoryReader

    documents = SimpleDirectoryReader("data").load_data()
    index = VectorStoreIndex.from_documents(documents)

Logging the Index to MLflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can log the ``index`` object to the MLflow experiment using the :py:func:`mlflow.llama_index.log_model` function.

One key step here is to specify the ``engine_type`` parameter. The choice of engine type does not affect the index itself,
but dictates the interface of how you query the index when you load it back for inference.

1. QueryEngine (``engine_type="query"``) is designed for a simple query-response system that takes a single query string and returns a response.
2. ChatEngine (``engine_type="chat"``) is designed for a conversational agent that keeps track of the conversation history and answer tp the user query based on the context.
3. Retriever (``engine_type="retriever"``) is a lower-level component that returns the top-k relevant documents matching the query.

> The following code is an example of logging the index to MLflow with chat engine type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code is an example of logging an index to MLflow with the ``chat`` engine type.
```

        )

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/llms/llama-index/llama-index-artifacts.png
    :alt: MLflow artifacts for the LlamaIndex index
    :width: 80%
    :align: center

.. tip::

    Under the hood, MLflow calls ``as_query_engine()`` / ``as_chat_engine()`` / ``as_retriever()`` method on the index object to convert it to the respective engine instance.

Loading the Index Back for inference
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The saved index can be loaded back for inference using the :py:func:`mlflow.pyfunc.load_model` function. This function
gives an MLflow Python Model backed by the LlamaIndex engine, with the engine type specified during logging.

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    model = mlflow.pyfunc.load_model(model_info.model_uri)

    response = model.predict("What was the first program the author wrote?")
    print(response)
    # >> The first program the author wrote was on the IBM 1401 ...

    # The chat engine keeps track of the conversation history
    response = model.predict("How did the author feel about it?")
    print(response)
    # >> The author felt puzzled by the first program ...

.. tip::

> 

Reviewer: We might want to pre-emptively add the next logical question to an FAQ section for users. 
"Ok, I saved my LlamaIndex 'model' with a 'chat engine', but now I want to use it as a 'query engine' deployed to an endpoint" - we could walk them through the process of extracting the index and saving with the alternative engine type and showing how the response differs in tracing to fully illustrate the versatility of the design choices for this flavor (the index is huge and expensive to recreate, the engine is easy to swap out - let's just connect the dots for them)

Author: Yea I initially added the FAQ section heading and couldn't come up with a good question candidates😅 The engine switching question seems to be a great one to start!

Reviewer 2: Another good one is stuff around settings e.g. how should I change the LLM/embedding model of a loaded index. Not sure how much llama index education we want to do though 🙂

* `MLflow Tracing <../tracing/index.html>`_ is a powerful observability tool for monitoring and debugging what happens inside the LlamaIndex models, helping you identify potential bottlenecks or issues quickly. With its powerful automatic logging capability, you can instrument your LlamaIndex application without needing to add any code apart from running a single command.

Getting Started
---------------

TBA

Concepts
--------

``Index``
^^^^^^^^^

The ``Index`` object is the core foundation in LlamaIndex. This object is a collection of documents that are indexed for fast information retrieval, providing capabilities for applications such as Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and Agents. The ``Index`` object can be logged directly to an MLflow run and loaded back for use as an inference engine.

``Engine``
^^^^^^^^^^

The ``Engine`` is a generic interface built on top of the ``Index`` object, which provides a set of APIs to interact with the index. LlamaIndex provides two types of engines: ``QueryEngine`` and ``ChatEngine``. The ``QueryEngine`` simply takes a single

> query and returns a response based on the index. The ``ChatEngine`` is designed for conversational agents, which keeps track of the conversation history as well.

Reviewer 2: Probably worth mentioning retrievers in here as well even though they're not engines.

Usage
-----

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

Saving and Loading Index in MLflow Experiment
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Creating an Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``index`` object is the centerpiece of the LlamaIndex and MLflow integration. With LlamaIndex, you can create an index from a collection of documents. The following code creates a sample index from Paul Graham's essay data available within the LlamaIndex repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``index`` object is the centerpiece of the LlamaIndex and MLflow integration. With LlamaIndex, you can create an index from a collection of documents or external vector stores. The following code creates a sample index from Paul Graham's essay data available within the LlamaIndex repository.
```

.. code-block:: shell

    mkdir -p data
    curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/run-llama/llama_index/main/docs/docs/examples/data/paul_graham/paul_graham_essay.txt -o ./data/paul_graham_essay.txt

.. code-block:: python

    from llama_index.core import VectorStoreIndex, SimpleDirectoryReader

    documents = SimpleDirectoryReader("data").load_data()
    index = VectorStoreIndex.from_documents(documents)

Logging the Index to MLflow
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can log the ``index`` object to the MLflow experiment using the :py:func:`mlflow.llama_index.log_model` function.

> One key step here is to specify the ``engine_type`` parameter. The choice of engine type does not affect the index itself,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One key step here is to specify the ``engine_type`` parameter, which can take the values: "chat", "query", and "retriever". The choice of engine type does not affect the index itself,
```

but dictates the interface of how you query the index when you load it back for inference.

1. QueryEngine (``engine_type="query"``) is designed for a simple query-response system that takes a single query string and returns a response.

> 2. ChatEngine (``engine_type="chat"``) is designed for a conversational agent that keeps track of the conversation history and answer tp the user query based on the context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. ChatEngine (``engine_type="chat"``) is designed for a conversational agent that keeps track of the conversation history and responds to a user message.
```

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    mlflow.llama_index.autolog()

    chat_engine = index.as_chat_engine()
    response = chat_engine.chat("What was the first program the author wrote?")

Then you can navigate to the MLflow UI, select the experiment, and open the "Traces" tab to find the logged trace for the prediction made by the engine. It is impressive to see how the chat engine coordinates and executes a number of tasks to answer your question!

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/llms/llama-index/llama-index-trace.png
    :alt: Trace view in MLflow UI
    :width: 80%
    :align: center

You can disable tracing by running the same function with the ``disable`` parameter set to ``True``:

.. code-block:: python

    mlflow.llama_index.autolog(disable=True)

.. note::

    The tracing supports async prediction and streaming response, however, it does not
    support the combination of async and streaming, such as the ``astream_chat`` method.

FAQ
---

> I have an index logged with ``query`` engine type. Can I load it back a ``chat`` engine?

Author: ```suggestion
I have an index logged with ``query`` engine type. Can I load it back as a ``chat`` engine?
```

typo

> I have an index logged with ``query`` engine type. Can I load it back a ``chat`` engine?
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: ```suggestion
I have an index logged with ``query`` engine type. Can I load it back as a ``chat`` engine?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

While it is not possible to update the engine type of the logged model in-place,
you can always load the index back and re-log it with the desired engine type. This process
does **not require re-creating the index**, so it is an efficient way to switch between
different engine types.

.. code-block:: python

    import mlflow

    # Log the index with the query engine type first
    with mlflow.start_run():
        model_info = mlflow.llama_index.log_model(
            index,
            artifact_path="index-query",
            engine_type="query",
        )

    # Load the index back and re-log it with the chat engine type
    index = mlflow.llama_index.load_model(model_info.model_uri)
    with mlflow.start_run():
        model_info = mlflow.llama_index.log_model(
            index,
            artifact_path="index-chat",
            # Specify the chat engine type this time
            engine_type="chat",

>         )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        )
        
Also note that an index loaded to memory is a llama_index object, so you can leverage their standard inference APIs, specifically:
* ``index.as_chat_engine().chat("hi")``
* ``index.as_query_engine().query("hi")``
* ``index.as_retriever_engine().retrieve("hi")``
```
